# Content REST API

Content REST API provides details about the API endpoints created to retrieve content from three distinct pages on the Drupal site.

## For a full description of the module, visit the git 
<https://github.com/SoumySoni/EITB>
 
## Table of contents

- Description
- Requirements
- Installation
- Recommended modules
- Testing Tool

## Description

# Create three Paragraph Types #
1. 	paragraph first (description ,image ,Read more)
2. 	paragraph second (description ,image ,Read more)
3. 	paragraph third (description ,image ,Read more)

# Create three Content type #
1. first para ( paragraph first (Entity reference revisions) )
1. second para( paragraph second (Entity reference revisions))
1. third para( paragraph third (Entity reference revisions))

# Create three Content #
1. Aliquam (Title and content type reference)
2. Dolus (Title and content type reference)
3. Paulatim (Title and content type reference)

# Build Pages with Paragraphs #
Create 3 pages, each using a different content type and each content type use different paragraph.

# Devel contributed module
I using the Devel module alongside my development process, I was able to leverage its features to enhance my understanding of Drupal concepts and ensure the reliability of my module.


# Create custom module #
I have created custom REST API using custom module to get the page all data by follow the structure(/modules/custom/page_api/src/Plugin/rest/resource) and page_api.info.yml file. 

# Expose API endpoints for the created pages to retrieve content in a JSON format #

To achieve this, I navigated to the administration menu and accessed "Configuration > Web Services > REST." In the Rest resource settings, I enabled my custom resource for all three pages, selected the GET method, set the request format to JSON, and opted for basic authentication as the authentication provider. After configuring these settings, I saved the changes.

# To verify the functionality of the API, I utilized Postman #

I selected the GET method in Postman, provided the necessary parameters(_format as key and json as value), and configured basic authentication(Basic Auth) by entering the username and password. Upon clicking "Send," Postman successfully retrieved all the data associated with my resource.

## Requirements

Drupal 8,9,10

## Installation
This module requires the following modules:

Contrib Modules: 
- [Paragraph](composer require 'drupal/paragraphs:^1.17')
- [Rest UI](composer require 'drupal/restui:^1.21')
- [Devel](composer require 'drupal/devel:^5.1')

Core Modules:
-[HTTP Basic Authentication]
-[RESTful Web Services]
-[Serialization]

## Recommended modules

[Admin Toolbar Extra Tools](https://www.drupal.org/project/admin_toolbar):
Provides menu links to administration pages or actions (eg. Flushing caches)
that are not generated by Drupal core.

[Admin Toolbar Links Access Filter](https://www.drupal.org/node/2474539):
Provides a workaround for the common problem that users with
'Use the administration pages and help' permission see menu links they don't
have access permission for.

## Testing Tool

[Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/)
Postman is a popular collaboration platform for API development that simplifies the process of designing, testing, and documenting APIs. Here are key aspects and features of the Postman tool:











